Now, in this video what we want to do is
we want to add in a simple Index Page. So
we're going to need to create a
controller to return back to the index
page and we're going to set up a Thymeleaf template for the index page as well.
And the reason I'm doing this now is
going forward, we're going to be looking
at how this page gets rendered in Spring
MVC from a client perspective. So we're
going to be looking at some of the
development tools and running against it.
So right now as the project comes out, if
we ran it, there's no templates or
anything to run again. So there's really
nothing for us to serve so we're going
to have to create it here. So I'm going to
step through and do exactly that now. So
I'm going to come in and create a New
Package and call it controllers and add
in a Java class called IndexController.
And I'm going to add that into GitHub for you guys and the Controller
annotation makes this a Spring Bean now. So
by adding that in, because the Spring
Boot application is here and it's going by default to do a package scan of any
package underneath it. So that will get
picked up by the default Spring Boot
package scan.
Okay so we are going to return back a
string called index and that's going to
resolve to a Thymeleaf template which we
have not created yet but we also want to
set up the RequestMapping here. So in
the RequestMapping, I'm giving it three
values there so we'll be able to hit
this either blank or with the slash or
going to /index. May or may not need
them. I'm not quite sure, we might
test that out. So this is our basic
controller that we've set up here. So
it's called IndexController. It's
annotated with the @Controller making
it a Spring component and then the
Request Mapping sets up the Spring MVC
Request mapping to find this to indicate
that when we go to one of these URL
values that we want the get index page
called and it's going to return back a
string value for index which is going to
go against a Thymeleaf template. So let's
go ahead and create the template now and say New HTML File and I just need to
call this index and it's important that
this index value, that string value of
the HTML file name, matches the string
that's returning this. So that's
how Thymeleaf for work. So it's going to
find and match things that way. I'm going
to add that in to Git. Okay so we have a
basic page and what we want to do is we
want to make this a Thymeleaf template. So
we're going to go in and add in the XML
namespace. So boom now it's officially a Thymeleaf template. So now a lot to change
there and let's add in a heading for
this.
I'm just going to say My Recipes. Now if you
remember, Thymeleaf is an agile
templating engine. So let's take a quick
peek at this in Chrome and we can see
that My Recipes! is displayed as we want. So that's good. So let's go ahead and run
this and verify that works. So I'm going
to come in here and on the Spring Boot
application, I can right click on it and
say Run. So you can see we're doing a
quick build there, parsing. And now we're
going to get started up and let's go
over to localhost and take a look at it.
And we got an error. So let's take a look and see what
it's saying and we're having a problem
with html. Oh I see what it did. I had
made a mistake here. So that was actually
supposed to be there. So that's pasting
in. So I didn't make a Thymeleaf template.
I've made an error. So let's go ahead
and reload this and I saw an error. If
you see I'm on Spring 1.5. So that's
definitely a mistake. I'm going to fix
that too. Let's take a look at this now.
Another error, what's wrong? Ah the meta tag.
So Thymeleaf wants everything properly
escaped. So that HTML tag was not
properly closed in an XML sense, Html's a little bit more forgiving but
Thymeleaf does do strict matching so let's
restart this again.
Alright My Recipes! is displayed.
So now yes I saw that I made one more
mistake and I brought in the wrong
version of Spring. So this is going to bring in
Spring 4 and I want to be working
with Spring 5. So it's definitely a
mistake on my part. So I am going to
cheat and come over here to our Joke app
where I did not make that mistake and of
course my Joke app is on the wrong
screen. I would come over here and the
current release is Spring Boot M1. So that's
milestone one. I'll go ahead and update
that. I can see IntelliJ is asking me
to Import Changes. You can do an Auto
Import there. I do like having
the manual import. It does let me know
when things are changing. So I can see
that and sometimes when you're working
on a really really large project, Auto
Import can be rather sluggish and that's
just from experience and I'm talking of a
pretty big enterprise project. So I'm
restarting it, make sure that we're
getting the proper Spring Boot version
but we did not. So let's stop this again.
I'm going to close this and we're going
to make sure that we get to get the
refresh of the dependencies. Now I'm
going to go ahead and start up again and
make sure that we still are not getting
the proper version.
Okay I paused it there and took a quick
look at the pom from our Joke app and
what I didn't do is I forgot to include
these repositories. So these are a couple
repositories that are used for SNAPSHOT
versions. So I'm recording that's pretty
early. So I am using a SNAPSHOT or a
Milestone release actually so there's a
special Spring repository for Snapshots
and for Milestones both for the
repositories and the plugin. So I'm
actually kind of surprised when I changed
that version that it worked at all. So
but sometimes I even still get surprised
by things. So I'm going to come in and
add these and now let's go ahead and
import those changes. I think IntelliJ
did something as far as keeping the
class path right because I was running
from IntelliJ and not in Maven. So
imagine mMven probably would have been
unhappy about not having those
repositories and calling for an
unmatched version of Spring Boot. So now
I'm going to go ahead and run this again
and I expect that we'll get the proper
Spring Boot version come up. And it's
taken a second longer because IntelliJ
is going back and working with maven to
download the dependencies and also index
the new dependencies. So now you can see
that we are, let's go by a little bit fast,
but you can see that we are in fact on
Spring Boot v2 Milestone one
which is exactly what we want.  At
the time of recording, that is the latest
release of Spring Boot.